Here is a project I am working on to explore if there are any patterns or relationships between the size of Pūkeko (Porphyrio melanotus melanotus) eggs (i.e. volume measurement calculated from the length and width), the order of laying and hatching, and the size of chicks at hatching. I have been putting together a multi-year dataset from 2008, 2010, 2013-19, 2022-23. Some years are missing some egg size data. Otherwise I have data on egg size, length from the end of the shield to the tip of the beak, and length of the left outer tarsus at hatching measured in millimeters using digital calipers. I also have the mass of the chicks in grams at hatching using a spring scale. The chicks were placed in small sacs and the mass is the total mass minus the mass of the bag (and minus the mass of bands if they have bands). The laying order is only known when addtional eggs were found in the nest during the nest monitoring prior to and durng the incubation period. For example, there were 3 eggs when the nest was first found, and 4 eggs the next day, we know which egg was laid 4th. Pūkeko can have varying degrees of hatching synchrony with some clutches all hatching at the same time and other nests that all hatch on different days. The hatching order is only known when there were not synchronous hatching of multiple chicks at the same time. Sometimes we can tell which chick came from which egg based on which eggs are left in the nest when chicks are found, or we observe them actively hatching. When this occurs, we can also tell the hatching order of the chicks. Most of my analyses will be using this complete dataset with known egg size, hatching order, and chick morphometric measurments at hatching.  
Something I would like to get into eventually but haven't started yet is using climate data such as the mean temperature and precipitation in the 30 days prior to laying. We could estimate the laying time based on the hathing time and relative to known lay dates of other eggs in the nest. 
Another thing I want to explore is looking at the female laying the eggs. A 4th appearing egg in a nest could be a first egg of a subordinate female. I will be looking at field data and photographs/software to assign eggs to female A,B,C. This is also important because egg size may not be independent from year to year since there may be data from the same female across different years in the dataset. 
